SKILL.md, before:

---
name: llm-shell-operator
description: This skill should be used when an agent needs to operate the local LLM Shell HTTP API to start/stop processes, poll status, and read logs during iterative development.
---

# LLM Shell Operator Skill

## Purpose

Provide a repeatable workflow for controlling the LLM Shell API: start a process, confirm it is running, read logs, restart or kill it, and validate with tests.

## When to Use

- Need to start a long-running server without blocking the agent console.
- Need to read logs from a running process or after a failure.
- Need to restart a process after code changes.
- Need to kill a process cleanly or forcefully.

## Output formats

- `/start`, `/status`, `/kill`, `/restart` return **plain text** by default.
- Add `?format=json` to get JSON for machine parsing.
- `/logs` always returns **plain text**.

## Testing methodology (required)

- Use the `execute_command` tool with `curl` for all testing or interaction with llm_shell API endpoints.
- Do **not** use a browser to test API endpoints.

Example `curl` commands (use via `execute_command`):

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/health
```

```bash
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8776/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"python -m http.server 8080"}'
```

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/status
```

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/kill?type=SIGTERM'
```

## Workflow

### 1) Check API health

Run:

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/health
```

Expect `{"status":"healthy"}`.

### 2) Start a process

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8776/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"python -m http.server 8080"}'
```

Note (EN): after POST /start (run_command), the API waits ~2 seconds before responding to collect PID/status and catch early errors (e.g., invalid folder paths).
Look closely at the API response to see if the command actually ran.

JSON:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/start?format=json' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"python -m http.server 8080"}'
```

If response is 409, process is already running. Decide to kill it first or restart.

### 3) Check status

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/status
```

JSON:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/status?format=json'
```

If `status` is `running`, continue. If `exited`, inspect logs.

### 4) Read logs

- Last N lines:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/logs?lines=100'
```

- Last N seconds:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/logs?seconds=30'
```

Do not pass both `lines` and `seconds` in one request.

### 5) Restart after code changes

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/restart?timeout=5'
```

JSON:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/restart?timeout=5&format=json'
```

This sends SIGTERM first, then SIGKILL if the process does not exit within timeout.

### 6) Kill process

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/kill?type=SIGTERM'
```

JSON:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/kill?type=SIGTERM&format=json'
```

### 7) Example loop command

Run a looping command to validate log streaming:

```bash
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8776/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"while true; do echo loop-$(date +%H:%M:%S); sleep 1; done"}'
```
Then:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/logs?lines=5'
```

### 8) Typical dev cycle

1. Start server via `/start`.
2. Run tests in separate command.
3. If tests fail, fetch logs via `/logs`.
4. Fix code.
5. `/restart` the process.
6. Re-run tests.
7. `/kill` when done.

## Error Handling

- 400: invalid request (empty command, lines+seconds, bad params)
- 404: process not started or log file missing
- 409: process already running
- 500: internal error

## Notes

- Single session only: cannot run multiple processes at once.
- Commands run via shell, so `cd` and env vars are supported: `"cd app && PORT=8080 python server.py"`.
- Logs are stored in `logs/` as JSON lines; `/logs` returns plain text.

Commit message:

docs(skill): add project command preface with cd and venv steps
Add a required preface section to the skill guide that reminds users to change to the project directory and activate the virtual environment before running any commands. This ensures consistent environment setup and prevents runtime errors.

SKILL.md, after:

---
name: llm-shell-operator
description: This skill should be used when an agent needs to operate the local LLM Shell HTTP API to start/stop processes, poll status, and read logs during iterative development.
---

# LLM Shell Operator Skill

## Purpose

Provide a repeatable workflow for controlling the LLM Shell API: start a process, confirm it is running, read logs, restart or kill it, and validate with tests.

## When to Use

- Need to start a long-running server without blocking the agent console.
- Need to read logs from a running process or after a failure.
- Need to restart a process after code changes.
- Need to kill a process cleanly or forcefully.

## Output formats

- `/start`, `/status`, `/kill`, `/restart` return **plain text** by default.
- Add `?format=json` to get JSON for machine parsing.
- `/logs` always returns **plain text**.

## Testing methodology (required)

- Use the `execute_command` tool with `curl` for all testing or interaction with llm_shell API endpoints.
- Do **not** use a browser to test API endpoints.

## Project command preface (required)

- ALWAYS change to the project directory before running the server or executing any commands for this project: `cd /Users/vvzvlad/Data/Projects/llm_shell`.
- ALWAYS activate the virtual environment before running the server or executing any commands for this project: `source venv/bin/activate`.
- Example command format (must include both steps):

```bash
cd /Users/vvzvlad/Data/Projects/llm_shell && source venv/bin/activate && python -m uvicorn src.main:app
```

Example `curl` commands (use via `execute_command`):

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/health
```

```bash
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8776/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"python -m http.server 8080"}'
```

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/status
```

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/kill?type=SIGTERM'
```

## Workflow

### 1) Check API health

Run:

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/health
```

Expect `{"status":"healthy"}`.

### 2) Start a process

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8776/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"python -m http.server 8080"}'
```

Note (EN): after POST /start (run_command), the API waits ~2 seconds before responding to collect PID/status and catch early errors (e.g., invalid folder paths).
Look closely at the API response to see if the command actually ran.

JSON:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/start?format=json' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"python -m http.server 8080"}'
```

If response is 409, process is already running. Decide to kill it first or restart.

### 3) Check status

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8776/status
```

JSON:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/status?format=json'
```

If `status` is `running`, continue. If `exited`, inspect logs.

### 4) Read logs

- Last N lines:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/logs?lines=100'
```

- Last N seconds:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/logs?seconds=30'
```

Do not pass both `lines` and `seconds` in one request.

### 5) Restart after code changes

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/restart?timeout=5'
```

JSON:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/restart?timeout=5&format=json'
```

This sends SIGTERM first, then SIGKILL if the process does not exit within timeout.

### 6) Kill process

Plain text:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/kill?type=SIGTERM'
```

JSON:

```bash
curl -s -X POST 'http://localhost:8776/kill?type=SIGTERM&format=json'
```

### 7) Example loop command

Run a looping command to validate log streaming:

```bash
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8776/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"command":"while true; do echo loop-$(date +%H:%M:%S); sleep 1; done"}'
```
Then:

```bash
curl -s 'http://localhost:8776/logs?lines=5'
```

### 8) Typical dev cycle

1. Start server via `/start`.
2. Run tests in separate command.
3. If tests fail, fetch logs via `/logs`.
4. Fix code.
5. `/restart` the process.
6. Re-run tests.
7. `/kill` when done.

## Error Handling

- 400: invalid request (empty command, lines+seconds, bad params)
- 404: process not started or log file missing
- 409: process already running
- 500: internal error

## Notes

- Single session only: cannot run multiple processes at once.
- Commands run via shell, so `cd` and env vars are supported: `"cd app && PORT=8080 python server.py"`.
- Logs are stored in `logs/` as JSON lines; `/logs` returns plain text.
